#summary Getting started with Java, NetBeans, and SVN
FRC Team 610 programs our robot in Java. This page serves as a guide to getting started with Java development - installing the IDE, installing the FRC plugins, and connecting to the versioning software we use.
= NetBeans =
NetBeans is the preferred Java IDE for use by FRC teams using Java because the plugins for the WPIlib FRC library are developed exclusively for NetBeans.
==JDK and JRE==
To run Java on your computer, you will need the Java Runtime Envrionment (JRE). For NetBeans to compile code properly on your computer, you need the Development Kit (JDK). Both are available [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html here]. You will need the standard Java JRE and JDK, *not* the JavaFX or JavaEE bundles. Installation instructions are included on the site.
==Installing NetBeans==
Visit the [http://netbeans.org/downloads/ NetBeans Download Page] and choose your operating system from the menu in the top right corner of the page. For full support with FRC components, choose the third option (Java). The filesize is approximately 214 MB.
An executable file will be downloaded to your computer, to install NetBeans run the executable and accept the default options.
==Installing FRC Plugins==
The FRC Java plugins are provided by an official third party, Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI). The updated plugins can be found in  [http://firstforge.wpi.edu/sf/frs/do/downloadFile/projects.wpilib/frs.wpilib_java_update_for_2011_frc.wpilib_java_frc_2011_update_ve_0/frs1212?dl=1 this] unencrypted .zip file. Unzip the file to a folder. To install them, open NetBeans, then from the Tools menu choose Plugins. In the dialog box that pops up, switch to the Downloaded tab and click Add Plugins and navigate to where you unzipped the files. Click the first *file* (edu-wpi-first-squawksdk.nbm), not folder, then hold down the SHIFT key and click the last file to select all five. To finish, click Open and then Install. Before they install, windows will appear warning that the plugins are not signed. Accept the warnings and continue installation. At the end of the installation you will have to restart NetBeans.
=Version Control=
TODO